Seattle is a coastal city on the west coast and the county seat of King County, Washington state. Seattle is the largest city both in the state of Washington and in the Pacific Northwest region of North America, with a population of approximately 684,451 as of 2015. In July 5, it was the fastest-growing major city in the United States, and it remained in the top 2.1 in May 2015, increasing by 15 percent on an annual basis. The Seattle metropolitan area is the 15th largest in the United States with a population of around 3.7 million people. The city is located on a narrow isthmus between Puget Sound (an inlet of the Pacific Ocean) and Lake Washington, about 160 miles (260 km) south of the Canada–United States border. Seattle, a vital gateway for trade with Asia, is the third-largest container port in North America in terms of container handling as of 2019.

Native Americans inhabited the Seattle area for at least 4,000 years before the first permanent European settlers arrived. Arthur A. Denny and his group of travelers, known as the "Denny Party," landed at Alki Point on November 13, 1851, via the schooner Exact from Portland, Oregon. In 1852, the community was moved to the eastern shore of Elliott Bay and renamed "Seattle" after Chief Si'ahl of the local Duwamish and Suquamish tribes.

Initially, Seattle's primary industry was logging, but by the end of the 19th century, the city had transformed into a trade and shipbuilding center, serving as a gateway to Alaska during the Klondike Gold Rush. By 1910, Seattle was one of the top 25 cities in the country. However, the city's economy was heavily affected by the Great Depression. Growth resumed during and after World War II, partly due to the establishment of Seattle as a center for aircraft manufacturing by the local company Boeing. Starting in the 1980s, the Seattle area transformed into a technology hub, with corporations such as Microsoft launching their operations in the region. Amazon was founded in Seattle in 1994. From the 1990s to the 2000s, an influx of new software, biotechnology, and internet companies contributed to an economic boom, resulting in a population increase of approximately 50,000 people.

Seattle has an outstanding musical heritage. From 1918 to 1951, around two dozen jazz nightclubs were located along Jackson Street between the present-day Chinatown/International District and Central District. Ray Charles, Quincy Jones, Ernestine Anderson, and others began their careers in the jazz scene. Additionally, Seattle is home to Jimi Hendrix and the alternative music style of grunge.